What is the structure of capital?
The structure of capital is a very basic concept of finance and corporate finance that I think we should understand well.
The first thing we are going to do is define the concept. What is the structure of capital?
Well, the structure of capital determines how we are going to finance the company.
Basically, what it determines is what proportion of debt and equity we are going to use.
That is, here is a key ratio, which is the leverage ratio.
The structure of capital determines the leverage ratio.
And why is this important? Why is the structure of capital important?
Because it has enormous implications on many things.
Well, look, on the benefits in the result account, because we will pay more or less taxes.
On the cash flows, the fact of obtaining debt or not, has great implications on the cash flows,
entries, amortizations, etc.
It has a huge implication on the risk it faces.
On the risk of bankruptcy, for example, the fact of obtaining more debt increases the risk.
And above all, and most importantly, what we are going to see is that the structure of capital determines the value of the company.
And it is said that we have to look for an optimal structure of capital that maximizes the value of the company.
We are going to review two key concepts.
One, the financial leverage.
If we start from the assumption that we obtain a higher profitability at the cost of debt,
the more we get into debt, the greater the profitability of our own funds.
And two, the increase in debt entails an increase in cost.
We have to build on these two concepts.
And we are going to see how this affects the valuation of the company.
We are going to understand it very well with this graph.
As we see, the company's valuation increases as leverage increases to a certain point.
As we see, the trend is reversed.
And we are going to understand it well.
Things I want you to remember.
Well, to begin with, investors prefer you to be leveraged.
Why?
Because the fact that you are leveraged will make the ROE increase,
will make the shareholders' profitability increase.
And I can give you real examples.
If you do a round and raise, for example, 2 million euros.
Funds or investors will prefer that, in addition to those 2 million of equity,
you can access bank financing, for example.
Why?
Because the equity profitability will increase.
And we see this well represented in the curve.
The company's valuation increases.
And if we think in a perfect world,
as we have seen, the leverage ratio makes the ROE increase,
then what we would have to do is to leverage as much as possible.
If we could leverage 99% and only 1% was equity,
imagine the 3,000 euros of social capital.
Well, in those circumstances, the profitability obtained by the funds would be maximized,
because they have put very little money.
Well, but here comes another factor, and that is the risk.
And this is very easy to understand too.
How would you value a company that is leveraged at 99%?
It would scare you, right? You would perceive a lot of fear, a lot of risk.
And that what it does is decrease the value of the company.
Why?
Because investors demand very high profitability,
and the cost of capital is very high in this case.
It is pure common sense.
And not only investors, not only partners,
but also debt providers, banks.
If a bank has to lend money to a company that is leveraged at 99%,
first I do not think it will lend it, but if it does,
the risk is so high that the types of interest it requires,
that is, the cost of the debt, would also increase a lot.
Therefore, as we see, the value of the company increases
if you are leveraging yourself to a certain point,
to a point where you have exceeded a criterion of prudence,
which depends on each of the sectors.
There are sectors in which you can leverage more than others,
because you have more stable cash flows,
because it is a business with less risk, etc.
And as, and the moment we have exceeded that limit, that range,
in which we are assuming excessive risks,
the value of the company will decrease.
Why?
Because both partners and debt providers will penalize it.